---
name: Programming Assignment 03
parent: Projects
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
---


# Project 03 - Snowman: The Complete Edition

**Due Date: Monday Sept 28 @ 6am Uploaded to Canvas** 
{: .text-red-300 }

## Your Task

In this project, you'll complete the game Snowman that we started in class a couple weeks ago.  Your Snow man should have at 4 sections, and after each wrong guess, one new section should be added to the drawing.  Define each of the 4 drawings in a separate function using `def...` as we discussed in class. 

The secret word should be read from a file named `secret_input.txt`.  

We haven't yet covered in detail how to make a program loop until the user enters certain values or until certain conditions are met.  So, I created a little Number Guessing Game program using the needed principles for you to use as a guide.  You can access that Python program [here](num_guessing_game.py). 

You should place the code for this program in a Python file named `1340-pa03-<lastname>.py` where you replace `<lastname>` with your last name in all lowercase letters.  For example, if I was writing this project, my file would be named `1340-pa02-fontenot.py`. 

## Submission and Grading

Your project (single Python file) should be submitted to Canvas in the appropriate **PA03** location. 

It will be graded according to the following rubric:

- Source Code Quality: 30%
  - Proper use of vertical white space
  - Proper use of horizontal white space
  - Understandable variable names
  - File header comments with your name, SMU ID, and a brief explanation of the project. 
- Correctness: 30% 
  - Does your project properly use the secret word in the input file to run the program? 
- User Interface: 40%
  - Are the interface steps logical?
  - Does the main game loop stop under the correct conditions?
  - Are the prompts to the user helpful? 

