---
name: Programming Assignment 05
parent: Projects
nav_order: 5
has_children: false
---


# Project 05 - More Snowman

**Due Date: Wednesday 10/28 @ 6am Uploaded to Canvas** 
{: .text-red-300 }

## Overview

In this project, you'll extend the functionality of your Snowman game from PA03 to include the following features:

1. Add functionality to keep score for the player.  The way you determine the score for a player in a game is up to you.  Gamify it.  
2. Keep a Scoreboard of the top 5 players.  A player is identified by their first name.  The data for the scoreboard should be stored in a file.  At the end of each game, if the current player has earned a score that would qualify them to be on the scoreboard, add their name and score, and then display the entire score board.  If their score does not quailfy them to be on the scoreboard, then simply display the scoreboard and give a positive message such as "Better Luck Next Time". 
3. 



## Your Task

In this project, you'll complete the game Snowman that we started in class a couple weeks ago.  Your Snow man should have at 4 sections, and after each wrong guess, one new section should be added to the drawing.  Define each of the 4 drawings in a separate function using `def...` as we discussed in class. 

The secret word should be read from a file named `secret_input.txt`.  

We haven't yet covered in detail how to make a program loop until the user enters certain values or until certain conditions are met.  So, I created a little Number Guessing Game program using the needed principles for you to use as a guide.  You can access that Python program [here](num_guessing_game.py). 

You should place the code for this program in a Python file named `1340-pa03-<lastname>.py` where you replace `<lastname>` with your last name in all lowercase letters.  For example, if I was writing this project, my file would be named `1340-pa02-fontenot.py`. 

## Submission and Grading

Your project (single Python file) should be submitted to Canvas in the appropriate **PA03** location. 

It will be graded according to the following rubric:

- Source Code Quality: 30%
  - Proper use of vertical white space
  - Proper use of horizontal white space
  - Understandable variable names
  - File header comments with your name, SMU ID, and a brief explanation of the project. 
- Correctness: 30% 
  - Does your project properly use the secret word in the input file to run the program? 
- User Interface: 40%
  - Are the interface steps logical?
  - Does the main game loop stop under the correct conditions?
  - Are the prompts to the user helpful? 

